Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Ans: we need data structure to store data in a database and retrieve data from database.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Ans:Compiler Design,  Operating System, Management System, Statistical analysis package,  Numerical Analysis, Graphics,
    Artificial Intelligence, Simulation.

what is an Array?
Ans: Array is a Temporary containerwhich contains a fixed number of values of a specific type.The length of an array is
     established ehen the array is created.After creation,its length is fixed.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Ans: 1)An array is static, you can't change it's length once created,but arrayList is dynamic,it can grow to accommodate
      more elements.
      2)Array can be multi-dimensional but ArrayList is always one dimensional.

what is LinkedList?
Ans: A linked list is a linear data structure where each element is a separate object. Each element (we will call it a
     node) of a list is comprising of two items - the data and a reference to the next node. The last node has a
     reference to null. The entry point into a linked list is called the head of the list.

what is queue?
Ans: The java.util.Queue interface is a subtype of the java.util.Collection interface. It represents an ordered list of
    objects just like a List , but its intended use is slightly different. A queue is designed to have elements inserted
     at the end of the queue, and elements removed from the beginning of the queue.

what is stack?
Ans: A stack is a data structure that allows data to be inserted (a 'push' operation), and removed (a 'pop' operation).
     Many stacks also support a read ahead (a 'peek' operation), which reads data without removing it. A stack is a
     LIFO-queue, meaning that the last data to be inserted will be the first data to be removed.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
Ans: FIFO would probably be referred to as a "queue".
     LIFO is also called a "stack" in programming, and is a very usual way to handle things.

what is the order of complexity?
Ans: An intuitive definition could define the order of your program as the relation between the input size and the
     execution time. Big-O analysis is a form of runtime analysis that measures the efficiency of an algorithm in terms
     of the time it takes for the algorithm to run as a function of the input size.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Ans: In the best case, the item X is the middle in the array A. A constant number of comparisions (actually just 1)
     are required.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Ans: In the worst case, the item X does not exist in the array A at all. Through each recursion or iteration of Binary
     Search, the size of the admissible range is halved. This halving can be done ceiling(lg n ) times.
     Thus, ceiling(lg n )comparisons are required.

what is tree in data structure?
Ans:  A tree is a widely used abstract data type (ADT)—or data structure implementing this ADT—that simulates a
     hierarchical tree structure, with a root value and subtrees of children with a parent node, represented as a set
     of linked nodes.

what is graph in data structure?
Ans: A set of items connected by edges. Each item is called a vertex or node. Formally, a graph is a set of vertices
    and a binary relation between vertices, adjacency.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Ans: 1)	HashMap is not synchronized and Hashtable is synchronized.
     2)	HashMap can contain one null key and multiple null values and Hashtable cannot contain any null key or null value.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
Ans: The major data structures used are as follows:
     -RDBMS – Array (i.e. Array of structures)
     -Network data model – Graph
     -Hierarchical data model – Trees

How HashMap works in java?
Ans:When we pass Key and Value object to put() method on Java HashMap, HashMap implementation calls hashCode method on
    Key object and applies returned hashcode into its own hashing function to find a bucket location for storing Entry
    object, important point to mention is that HashMap in Java stores both key and value .

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
Ans: Thrown to indicate that an array has been accessed with an illegal index. The index is either negative or greater
     than or equal to the size of the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Ans: There are mainly four different ways to copy all elements of one array into another array in Java.
     1. Manually
     2. Arrays.copyOf()
     3. System.arraycopy()
     4. Object.clone()

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
Ans: Array: Array is a collection of elements having same data type with common name.
     LinkedList:Linked list is an ordered collection of elements which are connected by links/pointers.
What is DFS and BFS?
Ans: The breadth first search (BFS) and the depth first search (DFS) are the two algorithms used for traversing and
     searching a node in a graph. They can also be used to find out whether a node is reachable from a given node or not.

What is Recursion?
Ans: Recursion in java is a process in which a method calls itself continuously. A method in java that calls itself is
     called recursive method.It makes the code compact but complex to understand.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Ans: Big O notation is used in Computer Science to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm. Big O
     specifically describes the worst-case scenario, and can be used to describe the execution time required or the
     space used (e.g. in memory or on disk) by an algorithm.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Ans: -QuickSort: Best(O(n log(n)); Average(O(nlog(n));worst(O(N^2)
    -InsertionSort: Best(O(n));Average(O(n^2));worst(O(n^2))

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.
